a completely unsubstantiated rumor from
Facebook reports that vegan gains has
been forcibly removed from onstage at
some kind of animal rights conference
I'll now read this unverified first-hand
account giving you a sense of its
gravity and seriousness by using a hand
puppet and putting on a silly voice to
ridicule the source
That awkward moment when somehow Richard
Burgess aka vegan gains who has some of
the most oppressive garbage politics got
invited to a vegan influences panel at a
veg food fest then decided to publicly
and disruptively
shame a veg food fest organizer during a
Q&A on a separate panel for having a
vegetarian for five years and not yet
vegan um pardon me by repeatedly
accusing her of participating in the
rape and torture of animals while
organizers and security guards tried to
remove him this is what happens when the
movement as a whole
continues to uphold trash while refusing
to listen to or actively silences
critical intersectional perspectives if
there is video tape I haven't seen the
videotape I've only read this first
account if Richard is gonna come forward
and speak on the issue I haven't heard
him say anything about the issue
however the question we have to ask
yourself in these situations is what do
we hear for guys why did we even hold a
conference if we can't be honest with
one another at talking about the
conflict between vegan and vegetarian
within the animal rights movement if we
can't be honest with one another about
say the conflict between veganism and
reduce it arianism conservationists who
still go duck hunting all these issues
whatever they may be if we can't be
honest about it why did I buy an
airplane ticket to come here why did I
pay for a hotel
you know real talk if we can't be honest
about this here and now
why are we here and I think what you run
up against is the assumption that people
are going to be less honest in real life
than they are here you know the safety
of the keyboard the safety of the
computer screen is safety of the
internet and I think that's I think
that's putting things the wrong way
around I used to be a scholar of
Buddhism and I went to a very memorable
Buddhist studies conference that was in
part academic and in part monastic which
is to say Buddhist monks were invited
and the Buddhist monks were almost
entirely just dead weight at this
conference they had no interest they had
no interest in the research being done
in in the study of Buddhism for the most
part but at one moment during the
conference there's a senior white
British scholar called professor Richard
Gombrich self on stage and a Buddhist
monk comes to the microphone and he asks
a somewhat provocative somewhat
confrontational question and professor
Gombrich can take the heat and he's
getting he's getting a little bit worked
up in his reply the man who was the head
of the conference the chief organizer he
comes out and tries to just end the
discussion he says oh we can talk about
it later we could talk about it like
behind the scenes after the conference
like during the lunch break or sometime
and to his credit professor Richard
Gombrich said no why did I come here why
did I buy an airplane ticket and fly
here and come here to this conference
what was the point of everyone gathering
here if not to talk out this kind of
issue and of course he was right when
else is a traditional Buddhist monk in
full robes going to confront you know a
secular Western academic
spurt in the history of Buddhism and
Buddhist literature but it's philosophy
everyone say when are you gonna have
that confrontation won't even have that
Q&A period or whatever it is when are
those issues gonna get talked out if not
now then when
if not here than where now what he said
at that moment it's different when I've
just said right now he's making
basically the same point but he talked
about the fundamental value of democracy
and the fundamental value of academia
and the concept that in a democratic
society an academic institution exists
for this kind of debate this kind of
confrontation of opposing values and not
to silence them not to split up nuts he
made an interesting he made an
interesting statement of principle and
you know just one other example of a
flashpoint in that conference there was
a white guy I believe American who stood
up from the audience and made a slightly
hostile point about the interpretation
of a certain text and it's a very well
known suit on Tet it's a very well known
quotation from the ancient Canon and
same guy on stage professor Richard
Gombrich he openly laughed in his face
he said look what do you mean look I I
don't I'm not reading that in English
I'm not relying on a modern translation
I read the original scripture I read the
ancient palette I really and he said in
this case it I was just rereading out
this morning before I came of this
conference you're joking you gonna tell
me um I think I think that guy was a
little bit emotionally devastated by
that and I've heard a lot of stories
about PhD students with that that that
specific professor people being kind of
scarred for life by these kinds of these
kinds of confrontations very often in a
conference very often with that distance
of the microphone and the audience and
everything and you know I think somebody
may be watching this video comes out of
a science background or
architecture background or even a
theater or background if you're gonna
have a writers room you're gonna have
writers sitting around a table
discussing what changes they're gonna
make to a script you've got to be ready
to debate that you got rid of speaker
piece but obviously the type of people
who study Buddhism there's a
self-selecting bias here in the sample
these are conflict avoiding people these
are people who've been used to nothing
but positive affirmation again and again
and again being told what you're doing
is so wonderful just like veganism
you're gonna save the planet make the
world a better place and so it's so
great that you're doing this now you
know they've only been getting positive
feedback up to a point
until somebody laughs in their face says
like what do you even think what do you
mean you haven't read this book I have
what's the matter with you and has you
both of those conflicts that really was
what it came down to all like with both
the Buddhist monk and with the American
guy in the audience really what Richard
Gombrich was saying was I've read this
book and you haven't it one point that
exact same situation he said to the guy
in the audience he said to the Buddhist
monk that he had more respect for the
Muslims because at least the Muslims
would leave the Koran at least the
Muslims read the sacred text their
religion is based on the Quran of that
hadith they know what they're getting
themselves into whereas this religion of
Buddhism in the 21st century it's the
blind leading the blind there's another
layer to this this parallelism this
construction because at that very
conference and then also the next time I
met with Gombrich man to man face to
face you know I really confronted him
about the fact that he still eats meat
he's not vegetarian he's not vegan he
never has been vegetarian or vegan and
the question is no matter how nicely you
want to word it what are you doing
flying around the world going to
conferences and sometimes talking about
very fine point
of doctrine concerning Buddhist ethics
about whether or not you can kill a
mosquito or something and your killing
and eating cows every day you're killing
pigs fish whatever you know what's
what's the so what does any of it mean
if you can't take that basic step
Richard you know in this case he may be
he may be dead wrong it may be that
tomorrow some tremendously embarrassing
video footage is gonna come out of this
and we'll all have a laugh at how
ridiculous it looks but you know being
wrong is something that happens to human
beings once in a while sometimes you got
a choice you don't sometimes you have
control over it sometimes you don't
sometimes it's a decision you make
sometimes it's not being wrong is
something that happens to human beings
once in a while at least Richard is
keeping it real a commitment to keeping
it real that's a commitment you can make
and it's a commitment you can struggle
to keep you can't ever make a commitment
to never be wrong again you can't make a
commitment to always be right when
you're wrong
notice that you're wrong try to feel
good about yourself because if you've
been wrong about something it's a sure
sign that you're still learning I mean
really people like to disrespect my
truth but the fact is that you know my
name is I don't know